 So as I was saying, it's more of an ELT process where we bring in the data as is and then transform it at multiple levels within the lake. Again, business-driven depending on who's consuming and how they want to use this for reporting purposes or analytics. That said, again, TR-wide there are multiple source systems through some of its products, some through acquisitions or newer data comes in every now and then through newer source systems. There are multiple ingestion patterns in place, file-based ingestions, table-based ingestions, and then we do have streaming as well. Recently, we've started to bring in unstructured data as well alongside semi-structured and structured. That said, there are other ways to bring this data in, apart from our standard file and table using custom ingestions, where there is a specific requirement from business to strip some data off or add some audit columns before we bring it on board. Again, none of this alters the data from the source system. Most of the columns that are there in the table are brought in as is, and it is retained the same way in the source layer. Beyond the source layer, which is also called the raw layer in the data warehousing world, there are some levels of cleansing or transformations that happen, and the data moves into something called as TREM, which is the TR enterprise model. This does not necessarily have all of enterprises data. However, we are coming up with a concept of data products. It is still in the nascent stage. While some businesses are creating these, there are a few that are still working on getting into this space. Now, the data products are nothing but data models that are built by businesses. But as of today, what's happening is we have a space called MDS, which is typically the workspace for the business users, technical, non-technical. Within this space is where they are allowed to create what they want with the data that is available in the product source layer, which is in the raw layer. Only read permissions are given to the source layer data, which is in raw layer. Beyond that, they are able to create data models or data products within the MDSs today. Of course, when you say MDS, it is specific to each business unit, and that can't be shared between two MDSs, which is why we want to make sure that they are able to share what they build across business function for a larger consumption. We have enabled a concept called as data products, where they write these internal data products that are created within the MDS to the raw layer. Within the broad layer, there is something called as data products schema, which is created where they can host all their data models. Those are shareable with people beyond or intra or inter business units both. This is how we've broken down the data. The first layer, raw layer, then we have the trim where some of the data modeling happens today by certain business functions, but not all. But this sits in production. Then we have MDS where all the business units access, and from MDS people are able to now write back to production through data products. These are the reusable data models that are created by business functions, but are created for a larger purpose beyond one single business unit. Does that help? Across all these layers, we have governance in place using Immuta. Immuta's policy based framework is what we are using to tie the cataloging which is in elation. Then we have sale point for access management, and then Snowflake again is integrated. All these systems are interconnected through Immuta, and that enforces policy based access control for human users and service users today. Of course, for MDS, we are in the process of implementing the access control using Immuta later this year. That's in the pipeline, not available as yet. This is how we are placed from an architecture perspective. But when you're talking about costs, at all these stages, we are incurring costs. One, primarily because we have so many sources that we need to ingest day-on-day, month-on-month, and it's only growing over the years. Of course, the cost for storage is not as much as the processing and compute. We've noticed that some of these businesses that are bringing in the data beyond a certain point are trying to process it for reporting purposes or analytics, but they're not really conscious or cautious about the resource utilization for the compute. There are times where we step in and try to help them in terms of some of the benefits that Snowflake itself offers in terms of resizing, warehouses, managing the suspend time or managing idle times of these warehouses and bring down the cost. But many at times, it's also a dependency on the consumers or the source systems or the business teams, because when they have their code which is written in not a very optimized way, it does affect the performance and the time taken for the queries to run. Some of the business teams are being made aware of this and they're working on fixing it while many are not. What are the ways we can enable more and more controls on Snowflake from a data platform standpoint, which is us, and how can we manage this without having a lot of dependency on business teams to modify their code? These are things that I'm looking at learning or knowing that there are tool offers, but that's pretty much the areas that we want to see how we can manage our control costs. I hope this helps. Before I jump into the other areas, when you refer to the data products, the teams that are using any of these, obviously to write those data contracts or the transformation rules, etc. Are they using the DBT or something within this Snowflake? They are. Okay. Now, if I understand further more, so assume I'm one of the business side of the person and I'm writing my own requirements for the data, the contract and etc. and running that. So maybe I might be an expert in optimizing, writing that contracts and the rules and everything. And when I run, it may cost maybe $100, but someone who expert return it might be costing $10, something like that, because of the way they have defined, etc. So it is a different scenarios you have. So different resources are using different kinds of contracts and keep executing them so that your cost is going up. Possibly, yes. Yeah. Okay. And yeah, so I got it. So that is one thing. And when you also refer to these different source systems that you have, right? Typically, your data keeps coming in almost the entire day or any timeframes, certain duration you will get it. There's billions of records that come in, right? And as I said, there are multiple sources. I think we have about 350 plus sources today that we have landed data for. And these are all scheduled at different times of the day based on where this data sits. So I wouldn't put a particular time frame, but then it's usually scheduled at nights to get the most of the performance. But then I think the data processing happens throughout the day at different intervals for different source systems. Okay. And you are using any external tools to load the data into Snowflake? No, so we have our own frameworks in place. We do have 5Tran at this point in time to bring in data from SAS systems. And also some table and file based ingestions happen through that. But I don't think there is anything external. We use Snowpipe. So more or less it's AWS services like Glue and Snowpipe that we use to bring the data in. Even the framework internally uses the same. So your Snowflake is running on top of inside the AWS? Yeah, kind of. They're connected, right? So the data lands in S3 and it moves the data into Snowflake. Okay. So I mean, to further, right? So once I have my from the landing layer, so now that's where our Snowflake compute is kickstarting for us and try to give us more cost or incurring the more cost, right? I mean, based on your observation or thing, so obviously it's more of how much data I'm scanning and at the same time for that to run my queries, how much time it is running for that compute, right? So any scenarios that you have observed in the earlier example I took, right? So I'm a non-technical guy. I'm writing my own data products and contracts. So have you ever seen, the way the team has written that contract and the products can be better rewritten in an optimized way? Or the person who is writing that contracts, the rules, right? They're not clearly aware of, okay, these are my partition columns, these are my filter columns, et cetera, so that I can reduce the data scanning and so on. Yeah, I mean, if the question is, have we observed this? Yes, we have, and we have informed those teams or the sources to optimize it, right? Now, not everybody prioritizes technical enhancements over deliveries, right? So it only is picked up when there is capacity and bandwidth for that kind of effort. So yes, there are teams who take it on priority because they have capacity, right? And it's critical, but for the others, deliveries are super critical. And these things are usually pushed towards the end of the year. So many at times it falls off the radar. However, there is a team that has taken action and then shown considerable improvement on how their code used to be versus how it's performing now, showing good amount of savings. Now, this is not something that is standard across all teams. So one-off case, right? But if one system has done this, then there is potential for everyone else also to do because there is gap there as well. But which is where, right? So these are some things that we have closely observed and we know, but we can't go through every single source data system and check their code to check the performance of their queries to analyze it, which is where we want, we're looking at a tool that can enable us to do that, right? So it can go pinpoint and tell us exactly here the problem lies. And then we can probably shoot out an email or a notification from the system that can alarm them and tell them that, you know what, this is not working well. This is adding to the cost and you might want to optimize it. Otherwise it will lead to ABC, right? So yeah, at a high level it's happening. There is potential for pretty much all source systems to fix their code, but we will have to exactly tell them what that code is, what is the time it takes today, how can it be optimized, unless and until we provide them with all these inputs, I don't think there'll be any action taken. Yeah, got it. One question, Samir. So you want to build observability on your existing source systems, so which will be scanning your, what are the queries which they have run to figure out that which are the queries which are taking more than time. And that should be analyzed from your end or your AI should analyze those things and get that feedback so that you can connect directly with your source system to use these type of queries to get the data very fast. You are looking in that way or? Yes. So basically we're looking at a tool that tells us where the problem lies and what are the options that we can use to fix it and beyond that also, right, from the way the current resources are utilized. How can we reorganize it from an infrastructure standpoint? How can we conduct ourselves better to manage costs regardless of what the business user queries are like? I think on both aspects we're looking at solutions. Okay. Yeah, so any questions, any more questions, Srimans? Before I mean. Yeah, you can ask. Yeah, so yeah, I understand. So there are two from this input, what I understood, right, so there are two things we need to fix or implement, right? One is that how the current behavior it is kind of on high level you are aware of, but in terms of like observability standpoint, right? As much as we clearly have the data or the logs that says that this is where one of the tables can enter rather than having that filter or partition kind of things. Such information we need to identify the root causes for where the spike is going on. The second is that already there are existing rules, logic, team has built and we can't go and ask like you mentioned every team saying that you have to change your code, etc. Because obviously they have their own priorities, right? How do we simplify that? Because they keep executing it. It is not going to end immediately, right? How do we optimize that part? And the final is that, okay, we know the behind the screen where it is spiking up because of which scripts are the processes. Then we found that, okay, this team code or the data products has to be optimized. We did both the things assuming. The third one is that in future this keep, I mean, my data requirements will not stop, right? I need to have a new data product, a new data contract has to be created. How do I give the luxury or the options to the user saying that you can still write the contract and the product, but behind the screen it is auto-optimized or it is sticking to the TR guidelines and the policies for the optimized way of execution. So that again we will not end up this scenario of spiking up our performance issues, all of that later because that will be a lifelong, right? We keep optimizing it. Someone again writing a new one that is not optimized. So these are the three things I see that, okay, we may need to address identifying, then optimizing existing, then have a proper framework or approach of the product that gives luxury to the teams, follow these guidelines and the creating the contracts so that it will be always optimized. Again, it is not repeating that way of writing the contracts. In between, while during all this process there can be scenarios where we may need to change the slightly the table structures or the partitions or even the some of the data models as well, which we can identify once we are looking into the systems. Hope you got it what I'm trying to address. Kind of, but I'm trying to map this so if there's something that we can see if you have something that you can showcase as it will probably help us understand better on what are the options available from your solution that we could look forward to, right? And how will it help us given the scenarios I went through? Yeah, I mean, I'm not sure we are not having a product technically for direct use cases, right? We are an organization where we try to come up with the accelerators and these solutions. We have a customized solution implemented for multiple organizations which are specific to them like private to them, etc. because it's every organization has a different needs. So, but this kind of for this we will have to come up with a dedicated framework or that tool addressing the specific needs here so that it is rightly pointed to your use cases. So, we are good at in those cases. Yeah, so maybe Vamshi. Okay. So, what we do is that custom-built accelerators that's what he's talking about and we do have accelerators like from Informatica Power Center to Databricks or Snowflake but that's not the use case here and in this particular aspect what we can do is maybe do a pilot or POC and where you can showcase what can be done and based on that that can be taken forward and that will be your custom tool. Yeah, so when you talked about accelerators what kind do you have in place today that I mean we can take a look at? Yeah, Pawan if you can showcase something where we're it may not be the direct use case here but if you can showcase what we do and how we do. Yeah, even if there's something similar we may have done for any of your other customer I think so it might give us some kind of perspective and I don't know like how we can also leverage if at all we can as an extension of it. So, if something exists that's good to see if not then we can explore some other route of POC or whatever it might be. Yeah, so Srinivas do you have our tensor handy with you? This Snowflake version? You were talking about that. Give me one second let me check that one. Yeah, so let me brief one of I mean this is not a direct correlation but since I just briefed while Srinivas brings that his screen so we have built an accelerator on top of Snowflake especially for the AI capabilities the cortex capabilities to answer on top of your data you may have questions right in a natural language way you have data in your table you have data in your documents which is unstructured data or semi-structured right so with this we have we are using the Snowflake capabilities with the agents we have built our own custom agents using Snowflake agents as well we curated that in a reasoning model saying that you ask that question it checks both structured and unstructured areas and try to come up with a common answer saying that assume that in my planning I have agreed that every quarter we have this sale but when I look at my transaction data for the particular quarter right it is maybe some x dollar and when you ask where I am standing today with my goal of meeting the agreed sale for this quarter right then it says that okay you have agreed in for this particular one million for this quarter but when we look at the actual transaction in our data it is saying that maybe 0.9 million so you are short of 100k something like that so it tries to explain in that way so that is on the explaining you your about your data from all the dimensions not only in the reporting standard way I connect to my structured data curated transformed one it is giving you straightforward but you also have some reference in the document which you have to explicitly open the document and go through that we are simplifying that in one simple ask right now how do I extend this to your use case right actually in fact we are not yet fully solutioned it or started it we actually discussing on the similar data products right every organization has a way of writing the contracts and products so we are trying to address that in a way that you ask your question in a way says that this is what I am trying to this is the data that I have and this is what I am trying to get finally from the business user standpoint he need that insert finally so then obviously using that lineage or the metadata that we have in the we need to have that uh catalog so that we will analyze that catalog metadata and try to go back to that schema and try to build the contract by ourselves with the rules because it knows what is my fields partitions and other filters as well and try to build the contract and so that it go and optimized way it will execute which more or less in correlation to the solution that you are looking at so that means you no need to write the contracts manually we will utilize the metadata available behind the screen in my snowflake which you have designed sorry mamshi yeah I was just interrupting here if we can just showcase what we have got I think that would be easier for somya to understand that's what she's looking for yeah yes she must maybe yeah I'm getting that one give me one second so yeah so this is our product which is built on the existing snowflake I will call it as tensor so so when you go to the admin this will give you the beauty of what database you want to do the scanning or what need to be done so based on that you can start selecting those things so if already got selected that will be visible for you or if you want to create a new one you can simply give the name and select the database and schema it automatically pulls all the tables from the information schema and try to create a relationship between all the tables and create a one flow so that if you see the relationship is already got created here I will show you so if you see yes just one question so when you say relationship what do you mean by relationship okay so if you see the tables if you suppose and in the schema they are a lot of tables are there so based on the column names and everything it ought to get the relationship between the both tables so if you ask any question automatically fetch data from the all the tables which are having in that entire database okay so you are creating a semantic model that specifying semantic model automatically it automatically reads each and every table and I'm using anthology to do this entire thing so which will scan the entire things it understands the your column names and try to map those columns to get the relationship perfectly okay so these are it called it creates the relationship and it makes the entire topic ready so that once it goes to the chart yeah I can really ask any type of questions what you want on the data simply I select the topic which I want and I simply I can write the question and if you want anything okay let me do if some documents are there which need to be scanned with the data as well so I can upload those documents into this and this will be get chunked based on the rack so this information is also got used when you search it when you search any question so if I give this one so we bear I'm I'm in the VPN so it will take some time so in the interest of time while it comes up so just a quick question like how you differentiate your stream lit app with the snowflake intelligence so so that is a provision from snowflake intelligence as well right yeah so how do you differentiate yeah okay back back and back and because this is only the front end which we have used for streamlet but back and it automatically connects with the cortex analytics through API okay okay okay so I'm not using anything which is internally connecting with the cortex API and doing all the activities so we are not utilized we're not created any LLM because we are utilizing all the elements which have been powered by the snowflake only so if there is an enhancement that will be automatically got introduced to your to the your stream lit app also so there is no change so we only wrap everything into a single package so that it can be used completely got it okay my VPN is very slow yeah again just a question here but if we include because this whole solution is built up like also also leveraging snowflake cortex right but then adding the cortex will will again add to the cost right apart from whatever you want to optimize with the current system but cortex itself will be an added cost to what we already have so it is understanding or understanding of world yes it it but it it tries to write the optimized query and see that it is not fetching much information it's take care of those things from the cortex side unless the scannings and those things will be reduced from your side also so the main advantage is that it's not required for them to learn the query I have to write the query but they can ask anything in the English question so that it automatically thinks on that and create the optimized query to fetch the data from the all the tables okay so yeah this is more on the explanation that point of view right but in your explicit use case it's more on optimizing those contracts and products so that you are you are you are having a standard way of executing your products right so maybe just I will take your screen Srinivas I just have one that I was referring to so let me know once you can see my screen yes please yeah so that's what I quickly brought this screen which I have so this is we are calling it as a tensor agentic extension to what Srinivas is showing today it's the tensor that the name today it's the tensor that the name we given to our framework is explanation point of using your data and the agents which we customly built and using the snowflake agents as well together the next one we are trying to envision is explicit to your use case only which is trying to automatically build your data products so that user will always say that what he need in a structured way say that we will give that interface in a way that this is what you are looking at etc then automatically we will utilize the schema metadata available and we will build that whole products and contracts so that it automatically have that optimized way of writing the queries and all of that on the snowflake then once it executes it's going to be on the optimized side only so that's what this is so this is what the architecture that we are coming up which is common we are trying to build for snowflake data breaks all of that so more or less this is what you are mostly suitable for your use case to fix your different users writing their products and contracts in a different ways which is in eventually incurring to more processing and compute and giving you the more cost this is on the maybe if i have the solution someone is creating a new product and contract they will utilize this which is which will generate optimized one but what with the existing products right we need to optimize them for that optimization we need to do some reverse engineering activity saying that maybe we need to come up with a plan saying that okay these are the products that are hitting me a lot that we need to maybe we can extend this saying that we will take your code i will ask my framework to say that analyze this and see how we can map in an optimized way of products so that your code is optimized and it will again on the positive side of execution okay so is this solution already implemented or it is still a work in progress and we are working towards giving it a proper shape but then but last thing that if it is already implemented solution have you tried like in some capacity with someone yet and have you seen the you know some cost savings coming out or how are we approaching it yeah so again our our approach towards building these solutions is more of extending these frameworks to our customers as a not as a license where it's more of we are executing the engagement we will give these solutions right so our side is more on the solutions so this is a new concept or a new new thing in the major majority of the data engineering platforms right so we are working on it working in progress but as a team we have that expertise of how do we optimize this whole landscape it's no flake the data products that you are referring to so even assume that we don't have any tool and you just given us a data product we will come up with the optimized way and clearly show you that this is the optimized one okay earlier it is costing you this much or this much time it is running and this product today can reduce a lot as an example that knowledge we are incorporating into this framework so i mean to say we have executed physically with multiple customers these kind of things that we are replicating our expertise in these frameworks that we are replicating our expertise in these frameworks okay question point so our ultimate end goal is definitely to achieve optimization of whatever the complex queries that have been like or complex way of data modeling that has been set up in in each of the data products done by certain i mean downstreams of our data lake but having said i think the very initial step what we are looking forward is to identify what are the list of data products have this kind of complex complex queries which is eating my warehouse right so yeah that is that is our initial step but definitely yes our end goal is like yes we have to recommend whoever the owners of the data products say that hey you you have like kind of your complex queries running and that is unnecessarily eating out the memory now our report shows you that these are some of the areas where you can optimize and in such a way that x amount of dollars can be reduced or x amount of credits can be reduced and also similarly not even the products also right there might be some some data data transfer some data mart queries also might have built up on top of some store procedures or something outside of dbt as well so do you have a framework or something you have built first to have that initial analysis check that where are my data products or what are the data products that unnecessarily eating our warehouse is there something like kind of a matrix you have it or you are prepared for this use cases because we have so many data products now yeah now we need to identify that area yeah yeah in fact that's what i was referring earlier that three step three things right one is on the from the observability or from the logs we need to find a way to identify which products are consuming a lot are hitting us a lot then we will go to the relevant team and say see how we can optimize those products and contracts right so that's i i completely in line with you what you are referring to Srinivas did we did this with the accelerant we were talking something this morning yes yes we have done the same thing on the one of the client accelerant the insurance domain so they are having a lot of dbt jobs which are running so for them to monitor that what are the things happening and so we have created a lot of monitoring alerts on the existing system so that they can know and once it sees that alerts automatically it creates the instance and flash the mails to everyone so that they can start working on this so they have we have created some threshold points to hold those things so so that we have worked on for the one of the kind but i cannot show but because that is completely on their systems only okay yeah so we we we utilize entire dbt to do that one so we have created a lot of models in that one to face the all the information and by getting that information we build a steamelet apps on those things to see the all the monitors the graphs and everything so that will be visible to everyone and back end we also created those things so mostly we because company has provided the cloud and everything so and entirely that is based on the cloud system cloud has been used in those things so so it automatically analyze those things and diverse the information which need to be tagged so i need to create an instant or i need to flag into slack channel or then to set it into a team that information will be decided by the cloud and it sends the information to multiple teams automatically okay yeah i mean i would have been happy if you have some kind of i mean no need any customers data or anything like that something kind of a demo piece or something like that which you might have in with you right because our pressing requirement for the initial step is the is the one which we are i mean regarding the observability and and wanted to understand what is the current audit or what is the current current state we have we are paying x amount of dollars now are we suppose i mean is there any room space where we can we can reduce this or are we wasting any any cloud cost or snowflake credits because of irrelevant coding that has been done or unnecessary wear of size have been used because for just small process compute and things like that so something like that kind of matrix if you have it i mean no need today probably offline if you can give us some screenshot like how will be the visibility look like i mean how it can be shared across to different teams or something like that will definitely help us look into it yeah sure we'll check is there anything that we can present on that use case yeah yeah thank you thanks pavan thanks Srinivas i mean yeah what good insights first of all i must say i know because we've been struggling in this space for quite some time and we're trying to figure it out what works best but as you all know right optimizations take a back step in terms of when other commitments are priority right but now with year on year the costing to our platform vendors increase and we also have to evaluate how it works out best but from that standpoint thanks for all the inputs thanks for all the all the insights we'll share it up go ahead sorry to interrupt yeah so i see that maybe like you mentioned right it's always takes back step and for not one solution may work for everyone in the optimization space right so uh uh so i mean given the opportunity as a next step right so maybe if we can have a chance to look into some of your instances of the snowflake and maybe we will also try to bring up something on the observability standpoint to quickly run on top of your instance and see that okay these are few indicators right maybe we will have that base from there we will tune that observability are the kind of rules that will detect your logs and the executions from the snowflake instances right so maybe that can be i see a next point uh picking to analyze and see that okay this is how we have to start or this is the things we need to optimize fair enough i think it's just that i will probably have to figure it out um how can we bring in the demo of our platform considering it has all possible information so we'll just see how we can how we can arrange it if we can arrange it and then we will confirm back to you on that i mean while you are to your point if there any any stats or any historical uh you know use case or showcase being available with you and you guys can just share non-sensitive data that will help us to also plan out and have something in mind how it can be structured without but that being said still a lot of good insights we'll check at our end and let you know how we can how we can share more more more inside information because i know that like without seeing the real thing it's hard to even suggest something so i'm kind of completely on board with that also so i think we'll just check internally and and align how we can share some more information with you or we can do a liquid demo of our platform and how it is being configured and if that helps to get more more perspective for you to give us more recommendations but we'll check and get back on that yeah sure we will also try from our side to show something for you i mean uh from our screen i know we came this call very open to understand so we will also try to show you that okay this is how on top of snowflake we are able to uh detect or identify the relevant performance issues or the cost spike alerts etc so yeah so what we'll do swati i mean for this particular call what i brief the team as this more of an exploration call to understand uh what's happening at tr and based on that like you know what could be the next steps so uh they did not bring any specific demos for the call because my briefing for them was it's more of an exploration call so we were looking at multiple things right it could be data bricks migration or optimization here and i think power and scene was having information on how your platform is being operated so they'll arrange the required like you know more insights over the next week or so and then based on that we can then identify how how the next steps could be if that helps sounds good sounds good it helps absolutely i think both of us can uh at our respective areas can at least collate whatever information will help the other side and then we can go from there yeah because power was actually asking me like you know what demos should i showcase i said like i do not have that information either it's more of exploration calls and once you understand everything you can like your custom build that so it looked a little bit unprepared from from the outside but the fact was like no i think it is fine at least we've shared when we've shared from our standpoint how we are structured how we configure internally and i hope our and sreenivas will have ideas uh in terms of how our platform is structured and then i think yeah i think those these are our list of accelerators just to show the at the names level at this right so these are our accelerator proprietary items that we built and available with us on day one so being the migration solutions being the native engineering solutions we have but actually this tensor agent right which is what we are trying to build uh for the especially data products which is more in line down the line so we we heard from multiple clients as well the similar problem that you are referring right people are writing their own way of contracts and products and there is no control we want to address that actually so we already thought of it's in work in progress which is correlating to your use case as well as the next steps i mean paul i'm sorry i'm interrupting you because i know we overshot the time they would have other yeah so uh as the next steps swati pavanen sreenivas will get back with whatever information has been discussed or like you know possible access to the demo and then once your team may even solve the network once you explore that i think we can take it forward from there sounds good on work with the idea correct great thank you thank you very much for your time thanks everyone for time today yeah thank you so much all have a good day ahead thank you swati thank you thank you